Any anonymous functions is a Funciton1

Scala 8 stuff putting stdlib stuff on type class - they don’t think there is performance issues


instance for type class go on companion object…
* Of either the data constructor
        (for std lib stuff, we don’t have access to this
* Or the type class
        (when we use someone else’s type class, we don’t have access to this)


"Filling out the matrix of possibilities"


Type class instances are implementations for a type class for a certain type (its implicit)



A good type class:
A type class is an interface that offers Funcitonailty for different data structures / data types

Scala makes traits and classes very similar!

Difference between interfaces and type class,
Programmer decides which interface implementation to use with Java interfaces (can be dynamic / differ at run time)

Compiler chooses type class to use (static / are determined statically at compile time)

Static - Lexical

Implicit - gives us different use of static use of interface and dynamic use of interface.
Compiler provides implementation statically - using the implicitly keyword.
"implicitly" is a keyword necessary for a static dispatch of interface!

What makes a keyword key: reserved by the language that we cant use as variables names.


Implicits have to do with static dispatch! Other than implicits, type classes are only interfaces!

Type classes only involve static dispatch!

Scala doesn’t have a keyword reserved for type class. Haskell does. Scala doesn’t have it built into the language.

When we see an instance for a trait in Scala, don’t know if its meant for static or dynamic dispatching!


In scala we are encoding two thing,
algebraic data types, and type classes


Many languages dont have static dispatch…
Most of the time, you have to pass the implementation.
The closest thing you get to static dispatch,
    … guice (dependency injection) (inversion of control),
        if the dependency injector can only get wired up with one instance for something, its the closet thing you get.


an implicit in scope is a fulfilment

implicit def - fulfuls the request of an…
def ….(implicit …) - here an implicit implementation is requested.

Static dispatch - if you have more than 1 choice, for fulfilling an implicit (if you are looking for evidence, there are 2 fulfillment’s of that evidence, what happens) (… unless there is a way to pick the right one)

compiler can throw warning - have to remember fail to build…

why support an ambiguous case - types correspond to logic - can have subsystems that are locally compatible, but universally incompatible

Scala is a bad tool to mix incompatible logics

Global coherence / uniqueness (there is a blog post on this)
for any type class on a data structure, there is uniquely one possiblity (when you look at disjunction, there is more than 1 way to come up with an implementation)

if you have 2 possibilities of a type class, make different data types (people don’t like this because of code duplication)


Ints and bits are not much different - don’t tell much, don’t tell you how you are encoding your data!

want to layer data structure on these guys until we have semantic clarity, then we can make unique instances of data constructor.

Function1 - scalaz implementation for what happens under the cover for when you define an anonymous function that takes a single argument!

Function1 has 2 type parameters - it has a param for input and a param for output

Functor had a whole that takes 1 thing, and the shape or kind of the thing is that where it is a type constructor on only one type.




if it doesn’t take any params or type params - it can be optimized to a val.

A type class implementation doesn’t take any arguments - we don’t depend on a value to implement the type class!

If we were to pass a parameter to a type class, it would have to be implicit as well.

The whole is the one that varies - a Functor of Function1 will have two implementation, making the input the one that varies, or the output the one that varies!


Hypothetical Sylologysm


Make a functor for any function1 input type ….


? - kind projector
_ for existential types

Functor[A => _]
_ means what ? means in java.
if you have a list of question marks, cant put anything into it, dont know what the type is, meant for backwards compatibility with java.


Functor[A => ?]
({type lambda[A] = A => a })#lambda
({type l[A] = A => a })#l
({type l[A] = A => a })#l

Question, can we pull through # anywhere else?
