Caution, the following notes contain controversy :p

### Randomness
- Random numbers are generated from entropy through heat
- We can only generate real random numbers so fast, block until nature can generate a random number
- How can we deploy a entropy generator in production?
	- Do this by being sudo random
	- Use entropy to get seed

### Abstract Algebra
- Associativity - a + b + c … = (a + b) + c = a + (b + c)
- Mathematicians can easily abstract stuff, but intrinsically, the signatures for fold can be drastically different.
- Scalaz - lots of it comes from abstract algebra …

* Abstraction for something thats foldable 
	- called foldable in haskell
	- has no type classes / no laws

* Monoid
Monoids have zeros, and identity functions
- In scalaz, identity is called zero for monoid (Name is wrong)
	- Name came from the first monoid:
	- First monoid was addition, whose identity was 0, thus the identity was called zero
	- The zero is sometimes called empty, or mempty
	- Scalaz gets the name wrong.

for all a 		identity					zero
> 	+				x + a = a	(x=0)		x + a = x ()
> 	*				x * a = a	(x=1)		x * a = x (0)
>   max     max(x, a) = a			max(x, a) = x
						(x = minvalue)    (x = maxvalue)    
						
* Infinity
- Zero for addition is not inifinty / int.maxvalue
- intergers do not behave like integers @ infinity
- laws break


### OO Principles

Bob Martin - makes living talking about OO principles 
	- solid - Single responsibility, …, Interface segregation, …
> Keep interfaces small, if done, higher chance of being able to sue interface on more data structures!

All monodis are semigroups but not all semigroups are monodis.

Somethings may be semigroups but not monoids


### Testing 
- prove evidence in tests … or in your head…

* Semigroup
- Laws / Properties
	- Associative
- A type can implement semigroup if all its objects can be implemented associatively.
	- Take two things that are the same and lump them together…
	- For example, it doesn’t matter which end of the list we start concatenating to construct the list, only appending in the same order matters

implicit - if 2 of same precedence - there will be an error

Book called Scala in Depth

### Subtyping

- Subtyping happens a lot mathematically, but mathematicians rush to abstract
* Scalaz
	- Alwan - we want to get rid of sub typing in scalaz 8
	- Scalaz may implement monodis by extending semigroup
	- Scalaz has this state of the art sub typing

* Sub typing and Implicits…
- How does compiler get right instance at right time.
- Ex: If a semigroup and a monoid are found, which one is used
- Determining which implicit is used involves:
	- Involves sub typing
	- Control the stack of implicit
	- Fixing the order of resolution of methods
- Accouting for this is hard -> lots of stuff overlaps
- Ignoring this complexity for now.

- Monoid could have extend semigroup, 
Use a monoid with a list, 
can’t use monoid with a non-empty list 

By having a zero, a Monoid can accommodate for emptiness
- A list is a monoid
- A non-empty list is not a monoid, but it is a semigroup
- its never empty!

Reader
ReaderT - T means monad transformer…
kliesly - 
	a -> M[B]

getting applicative instance for kliesly of a validation
	can do given validation has a semigroup instance
	if you are on the error side, definitely have error
similar to a disjunction

might have something to print, might not have something to print



semiring - has identity but not zero?
		+ and * , multiply has to have an inverse with zero divisibility exception



Pairs are not com-posable
- Not associable
- Intrinsically covariant


Scala has feature called by name => Nel[A] (non eager evaluation)

Scala wanted to have type classes support lazy data structure, thus they call by name all over the place.


no valid way to use bind to accumulate errors
bind assumes that the unwrapped value is successful
how I can collect multiple errors from multiple binds if lots of stuff fails

disjunction fails fast

Difference between validation and disjunctions
error accumulation on a 

On applicative instance, error type is a semigroup - need something to append to and order is preserved to hold error

left hand side in validator has to have semigroup